Add LSP4 Metadata guide (#883)
lukso-network/docs: docs/learn/smart-contract-developers/edit-token-metadata.md

---
sidebar_label: '💽 Edit Token Metadata'
sidebar_position: 3
description: Learn how to update LSP4 Metadata of digital assets on LUKSO.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Edit Token Metadata

> In this guide, you will learn how to edit the [metadata](../../standards/tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md) of an [LSP7 Digital Asset](../../standards/tokens/LSP7-Digital-Asset.md) by updating its LSP2 data key. If you want to learn more about the contract deployment itself, please have a look at the [Getting Started](./getting-started.md) or [Create LSP7 Token](./create-lsp7-token.md) guides before you continue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, you will learn how to edit the [`LSP4Metadata`](../../standards/tokens/LSP4-Digital-Asset-Metadata.md) of an [LSP7 Digital Asset](../../standards/tokens/LSP7-Digital-Asset.md).
```

And just put that above:

> If you want learn more about the contract deployment itself, have a look at the [Getting Started](./getting-started.md) or [Create LSP7 Token](./create-lsp7-token.md) guides before you continue.

To edit an LSP7 Digital Asset metadata, it is super easy, you will need to:

1. get your assets ready (images, videos, etc.) and a metadata JSON file

> 2. upload these files

Reviewer: suggest specifying where to upload these files

3. generate an encoded value
4. write that value in the smart contract key-value store

Let's go.

:::tip Code repository

You can find all the contracts, sample metadata, and scripts of the guide within our [`lukso-playground`](https://github.com/lukso-network/lukso-playground/tree/main/smart-contracts-hardhat) repository.

:::

## Get the encoded metadata URL

> For steps 1, 2 and 3, there is a [dedicated guide](../assets.md). Once your assets are uploaded, your metadata JSON file URL is ready and encoded, come back here.

Reviewer: Maybe it's better to put this link in the pre-requisite above, or a specific section

You should have an object similar to this one:

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

```js
const encodedLSP4Metadata = {
  keys: ["0x9afb95cacc9f95858ec44aa8c3b685511002e30ae54415823f406128b85b238e"],
  values: [
    "0x00006f357c6a0020610be5a5ebf25a8323ed5a9d8735f78aaf97c7e3529da7249f17e1b4129636f3697066733a2f2f516d5154716865424c5a466e5155787535524473387441394a746b78665a714d42636d47643973756b587877526d"
  ]
};
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

## Send the update metadata transaction

> Once you have the key and value (with the encoded JSON URL in it), simply call the [`setData()`](../../contracts/contracts/ERC725/ERC725.md#setdata) function of the [ERC725](../../standards/lsp-background/erc725.md#erc725y-generic-data-keyvalue-store)-based contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have the data key and value (with the encoded VerifiableURI in it), simply call the [`setData()`](../../contracts/contracts/ERC725/ERC725.md#setdata) function of the Token contract.
```

const universalProfile = await ethers.getContractAtFromArtifact(
  UniversalProfileArtifact,
  process.env.UP_ADDR as string,
);

// Update the ERC725Y storage of the LSP4 metadata
const tx = await universalProfile.execute(
  0, // Operation type: CALL
  myAssetAddress, // Target: asset address
  0, // Value is empty
  setDataPayload, // bytecode to be executed
);

// Wait for the transaction to be included in a block
const receipt = await tx.wait();
console.log('Token metadata updated: ', receipt);
```

  </TabItem>

  <TabItem value="eoa" label="Update metadata with an EOA">

In order to update the metadata using your EOA, you can call the [`setDataBatch()`](../../contracts/contracts/ERC725/ERC725.md#setdatabatch) function directly on the asset contract.

```ts title="scripts/attachAssetMetadataAsEOA.ts"
// As generated in the Asset guide
const encodedLSP4Metadata = {
  keys: ['0x9afb95cacc9f95858ec44aa8c3b685511002e30ae54415823f406128b85b238e'],
  values: [
    '0x00006f357c6a0020610be5a5ebf25a8323ed5a9d8735f78aaf97c7e3529da7249f17e1b4129636f3697066733a2f2f516d5154716865424c5a466e5155787535524473387441394a746b78665a714d42636d47643973756b587877526d',
  ],
};

> // TODO: update no need to get contractAt, just need to load the ABI for the setData function

Reviewer: I guess this TODO must be removed?
